check in session
github/GFA/please/projects!!! Announcements
/syllabus : calneder link
syllabus/wiki !!

front= client (run on browser)
back= serverside (behind)

---

INTERNET BASIC

Fundamentals

Yip, Yip, Yip!
Internet: wire that connects pcs
IP : uniqly indentified devices
IPv4: (still exist)
IPv6: more oppt. for uniq IPs
bits:
layout:
Domain names: (tored in DNS server) I tipe it in a browser (name of IP addresses: facebook.com)
	to buy, domain registrator companies selling domains
ISP: inernet service provider ( access to main wire to the internet, indirectly join to the internet & register doamin as well)
DNS: which IP to which Domain belongs
Protocol: coomon rules, how to cimmunicate on the internet. How to handle the information or put informations together, all pacages arrives
TCP: 

Data transport

How is data transmitted? (wire, air, wifi)
TCP: take informations apart, get the packages and put them together to get the WHOLE data; garantee for data successfully arrives
FTP,UDP, HTTP: protocols
Packet: small informations form a big data
Tracing packets
URL: contains protocol(https, domain name(facebook.com), extention to the domain (domain is the part of it), slash, resources(/events)= files on the server, like image, html,
	https://facebook.com/events
			authentication: i am logged in (???)
			autharization: what permissions I have
 	why do we see different in facebook events?: not static, dinamic page: who use the page 
Router: traffic controll, choosing the quickest way to deliver data, and also home router is the only channel where data can flow throw.
Fault tolerant, Redundancy:

---

WEBPAGE

(html editors: subline, braket, visual studio code)

HTML: marketlanguage ( defines the structure the webpage, static)
CSS: for the design
Doctype: declares html5 is using, it tells the browser (if we miss the tag, it use the current) if html6 reliesed, than it starts to understand as html6 if the tag is missingÖ
	beggining of the page
html semantic web: descryptive webpage we have to write
	the hmtl file defines a lot of sematic tags, all div tags. If I use them, google gonna like my side :D
	my html shoulb be written on the newest version, to get support from browsers/searchs engines.

head: visible face (metainformations, links)
body: main contant of the webpage
headings: h1-h6 (it is for semantical reasons, because it is for browser not for style.. h1 is the most important for google 
anchors: links, the a tag, inside and outside of my own page
p: paragraphs
strong: this is really important in my text (emphasize tag is for an important part AS p tag, strong is for a smaller part)
div: doesn't have semantical meaning. To structureing, create boxes , to have a same CSS for them
img
image formats
semantic tags
article: has semantical meaning
nav: navigation
main: main part of my webpage (main comoumn and side coloumn)



CSS
selectro (space){(enter, 4 spaces) property: value;(enter)} property; value --> declaration
style guide: define rules, how code should look like to be readable for others


properties
values
shorthand values
selectors: (target the tags in the webpage)
color
box model
block vs. inline
webfonts
units (px, %, em, rem)
font-size
line-height
background
background-image
--

WEBPAGE

save and refresh the browser
all spaces counts as 1


Inline tags: a, strong,
	 ... doesn't make a new line it appears on the same line
Block type tags: h1, p,
	 create new lines after them ( after closing tags, autmaically creates a break)